Clinical History John Doe is a 67 yo M with a history of PCM in remission. Diagnosis Peripheral blood smear and bone marrow, right posterior iliac crest, aspirate smears, touch preparation, clot and core biopsy 1. No morphologic or immunophenotypic evidence of residual recurrent ; see comment. 2. ellular marrow for age 0 cellularity with trilineage hematopoiesis, and no increase in blasts; see comment. 3. Peripheral blood with . COMMENT Clinical correlation is recommended. Plasma cells are not increased by morphology, and immunohistochemical stains CD138, kappa, lambda show 5 plasma cells with polytypic light chains. In addition, flow cytometry on the concurrent sample was negative for an abnormal plasma cell population. Blasts are by morphology and flow cytometry performed at UW, Seattle was negative for an abnormal blast population. ANCILLARY STUDY PLAN Flow cytometric immunophenotyping Completed see separate report for complete results Cytogenetics Await Additional Studies Await FISH for PERIPHERAL BLOOD The findings are consistent with the results of the concurrent complete blood count. The red cells and platelets show no significant morphologic abnormalities. There is no overt increase in rouleaux formation. The white blood cells are composed predominantly of mature neutrophils, lymphocytes, and monocytes. No evidence of dysplasia is seen, and no circulating blasts or plasma cells are identified. ASPIRATE SMEAR The aspirate material is adequate for evaluation. Cellular marrow particles are present showing maturing trilineage hematopoiesis. Granulocytic and erythroid precursors demonstrate a full spectrum of maturation and no significant dysplastic changes are identified. Plasma cells are not overtly increased, and no large aggregates are identified. Blasts are 5 of the total nucleated cell population. Megakaryocytes are present and have a normal range of morphology. Bone Marrow Aspirate Manual Differential cell count 200; normal adult range within parentheses Blasts 0 1 , Promyelocytes 1 3 , Myelocytes 2 10 , Metamyelocytes 5 15 , Band forms 10 40 , Segmented neutrophils 10 30 , Monocytes 0 3 , Eosinophils 0 3 , Basophils 0 0 1 , Erythroids 0 34 , Lymphs 5 15 , Plasma cells 0 3 TOUCH IMPRINT Sparsely cellular material with mixed hematopoietic precursors consistent with the aspirate smear. CLOT SECTION A few cellular particles are present showing maturing granulocytic and erythroid cells in keeping with the aspirate smears. No aggregates of blasts or plasma cells are identified. BIOPSY The bone marrow biopsy sections are adequate for evaluation. The bone marrow is cellular approximately cellularity . There is normal maturation in the granulocytic and erythroid lineages with a granulocytic erythroid ratio of 2 3 1. No aggregates of blasts, plasma cells or lymphoid cells are identified. Megakaryocytes are normal in number and have unremarkable morphology. CYTOGENETICS Pending. Results will be reported as an addendum. IMMUNOPHENOTYPING See separate UCSF flow cytometry report IM16 . Summary of pertinent findings See separate University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle flow cytometry report for MRD HP18 . Summary of pertinent findings See separate Mayo Medical Laboratories flow cytometry report Order Summary of pertinent findings IHC Additional stains were performed and evaluated to further characterize the plasma cell population and to assess for amyloid deposition CD138, kappa, lambda, and Congo Red . CD138 shows . Kappa and lambda demonstrate a . Additional immunohistochemical stains were performed and evaluated to further characterize the plasma cell population CD138, kappa, lambda . CD138 shows . Kappa and lambda demonstrate a . Additional immunohistochemical stains were performed and evaluated to further characterize the blast population CD34, TdT, and PAX 5 . Congo Red is for amyloid deposition under examination by polarized light; small vessels are present in the section.